---
type: artist
author: "Donghan Wang"
title: "Phytophilia"
year: "2024"
medium_type: "Installation"
material: "Arduino, custom PCB, silicon"
dimension: "15cm*15cm*10cm"
id: "donghan_wang"
qrcode: ""
status: ""
excerpt: "We are just one form of life on Earth. From the perspective of the entire planet, plants are the main inhabitants, while humans are a very minor presence. In any urban space, there are wild grasses, microorganisms, etc., but our living spaces are extremely exclusive..."
---
We are just one form of life on Earth. From the perspective of the entire planet, plants are the main inhabitants, while humans are a very minor presence. In any urban space, there are wild grasses, microorganisms, etc., but our living spaces are extremely exclusive. Humans only allow people and a few other species into these spaces, leaving many beings, such as invisible microorganisms like bacteria and viruses, excluded. According to Michael Pollan's viewpoint, only certain species that satisfy human needs become dominant on a global scale. Although the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS) has not officially recognized the Anthropocene as a geological epoch, our actions and ways of seeing things have already created a new geological era. Future beings or humans examining the geological period of our current existence will find it distinct from others. Amid the currents of era and technological advancement, humans have gradually evolved into beings that require technological intermediation. Thus, for posthumanists, "human" now resembles a bizarre animal robot.

In this work, I utilize Arduino to receive biological signals from plants and transmit these signals into 18 nodes. When these nodes are activated, 18 corresponding electrodes inside the mouth output electrical stimulations ranging from 1 to 5 volts to the wearer's tongue according to the plant's signals, inviting viewers to perceive the plant and its environment through their tongues. The mouth is a highly sensitive personal space. Through this interface, I aim to break down the boundaries between the body and the environment, emphasizing the complex interweaving and entanglement among humans, non-humans, and technology. It suggests the dissolution of self/other, human/non-human boundaries, urging participants to internalize their connection with the plant world. It also deconstructs the artificial separation between humans and other animals, highlighting the continuity and common vulnerability among different species. This interaction with "animality" sparks reflection on the primal, instinctual aspects of human interaction with the natural world and establishes species-shared connections, communication, and care through "kissing." This intimate act symbolizes not only a union with nature but also a tangible, bodily connection. As Donna Haraway proposes in "A Cyborg Manifesto," the concept of the Cyborg—a hybrid of machine and organism—represents a biological entity in social reality that transcends traditional boundaries of gender, species, and identity. The wearable device in this work embodies this intersection of cyborg, merging human biological processes with technological interventions to promote a form of communication that surpasses human sensory organs.
